docs/configuration/gateways.md, before:

Use the Gateway resource to register with a Sip Gateways or SBCs and send or receive calls from the PSTN.

The Gateways configuration can be provided using the file `config/gateways.yml` located at the root of your Routr installation.

> If using Redis this configuration gets stored in the database.

For static IP authentication be sure to properly configure the `spec.externAddr` and `spec.localnets` in `config.yml`.

## Gateway Resource

| Property | Description | Required |
| --- | --- | --- |
| apiVersion | Indicates the version of the resource (Not yet implemented)| Yes |
| kind | Defines the type of resource | Yes |
| metadata.name | Friendly name for the SIP device | Yes |
| metadata.ref | Reference to this resource | No |
| spec.credentials.username | Gateway username. No required for static IP authentication | No |
| spec.credentials.secret |  Gateway secret. No required for static IP authentication | No |
| spec.host | Gateway host | Yes |
| spec.transport | Transport protocol | Yes |
| spec.expires | Requested lifespan of the registration in seconds. Defaults to `3600` | No |
| spec.registries.[*] | Additional registries for ingress calls | No |

## Example

```yaml
- apiVersion: v1beta1
  kind: Gateway
  metadata:
    name: Provider, Inc
    ref:  GW0001
  spec:
    host: sip.provider.com
    transport: tcp
    credentials:                  # Static IP authentication is assumed if this section is omitted
      username: 'user'
      secret: changeit
```

Commit message:

This commit takes care of issues #51 and #53

docs/configuration/gateways.md, after:

Use the Gateway resource to register with a Sip Gateways or SBCs and send or receive calls from the PSTN.

The Gateways configuration can be provided using the file `config/gateways.yml`. The file located at the root of your Routr installation, or as defined in the environmental variable `ROUTR_CONFIG_FILE.`

> If using Redis this configuration gets stored in the database.

For static IP authentication be sure to properly configure the `spec.externAddr` and `spec.localnets` in `config.yml`.

## Gateway Resource

| Property | Description | Required |
| --- | --- | --- |
| apiVersion | Indicates the version of the resource (Not yet implemented)| Yes |
| kind | Defines the type of resource | Yes |
| metadata.name | Friendly name for the SIP device | Yes |
| metadata.ref | Reference to this resource | No |
| spec.credentials.username | Gateway username. No required for static IP authentication | No |
| spec.credentials.secret |  Gateway secret. No required for static IP authentication | No |
| spec.host | Gateway host | Yes |
| spec.transport | Transport protocol | Yes |
| spec.expires | Requested lifespan of the registration in seconds. Defaults to `3600` | No |
| spec.registries.[*] | Additional registries for ingress calls | No |

## Example of Gateway in `Registration Mode`

```yaml
- apiVersion: v1beta1
  kind: Gateway
  metadata:
    name: Provider, Inc
    ref:  GW0001
  spec:
    host: sip.provider.com
    transport: tcp
    credentials:
      username: 'user'
      secret: changeit
```

## Example if Gateway using `Static Mode`

```yaml
- apiVersion: v1beta1
  kind: Gateway
  metadata:
    name: Provider 2, Inc
    ref:  GW0002
  spec:
    host: sip2.provider.com
    port: 5080
    transport: udp
```
